# Practice Problems: Methods and More Methods
[RB101.4.10](https://launchschool.com/lessons/85376b6d/assignments/fd13de08)

## 1. What is the return value of the select method below? Why?

```ruby
[1, 2, 3].select do |num|
  num > 5
  'hi'
end
```

This will return a new array identical in appearance to the calling array (`[1, 2, 3]`). `select` returns a new array whose values are those which its block evaluates to true. The return value of the block is the last evaluated expression, which here is the string object `'hi'`. As the string object `hi` is truthy, the block will evaluate to true on each iteration and therefore every array element will be passed to the new array to be returned.

## 2. How does count treat the block's return value? How can we find out?

```ruby
['ant', 'bat', 'caterpillar'].count do |str|
  str.length < 4
end
```

If we don't already know the answer, we can check the documentation for [`Array#count`](https://docs.ruby-lang.org/en/3.1/Array.html#method-i-count). According to the documentation, `Array#count` When there is a block and no argument, `count` will call the block with each element and return a count of all elements that the block evaluates to true. Within the block we see that there is an expression, comparing the length of each string on each iteration, with the integer object `4`. If a string has less than 4 characters, the expression will evaluate to true and the block will return a truthy value. 

Among the elements in the calling array collection, only `ant` and `bat` which is add up to 2. Therefore, the return value of the `count` invocation is `2`

All that to say, `Array#count` considers the truthiness of the block's return value: It will count an element if the return value of the block evaluates to true.

## 3. What is the return value of reject in the following code? Why?

```ruby
[1, 2, 3].reject do |num|
  puts num
end
```

`reject` is concerned with the truthiness of the return value of the block. It returns a new array with any elements from its calling array for which the block returns `false` or `nil`. The return value of the block is the last evaluated expression. This block contains only one line, a call to `puts`. `puts` always returns `nil`, therefore the block will evaluate to `nil` for every element of the array collection and the new returned array will also be `[1, 2, 3]`

## 4. What is the return value of each_with_object in the following code? Why?

```ruby
['ant', 'bear', 'cat'].each_with_object({}) do |value, hash|
  hash[value[0]] = value
end
```

`each_with_object` passes both the elements of the calling collection and an object argument to the block. It has two parameters, one which references the current element of the collection being iterated on, and one that references the object passed in as an argument.

Inside our block we have one expression. `Hash#[]=` method is being used to assign key value pairs to the empty hash object `{}` that was passed in as an argument (the titular object of `each_with_object`). On each iteration, the character at index `0` of each string object element of the calling array is set as a key, and the same string object element as the corresponding value. The return value of this call to `each_with_object` will be `{"a"=>"ant", "b"=>"bear", "c"=>"cat"}`

## 5. What does shift do in the following code? How can we find out?

We can check the documentation for [`Hash#shift`](https://docs.ruby-lang.org/en/3.1/Hash.html#method-i-shift). There we see that it will destructively remove the first hash entry and return it as as a new two element array. So `a: 'ant'` will be removed from the hash and the return value of this will invocation will be `[:a, 'ant']`. Also hash will now only have one entry like so: `{ b: 'bear' }`

## 6. What is the return value of the following statement? Why?

```ruby
['ant', 'bear', 'caterpillar'].pop.size
```

The return value is the integer object `11`. `Array#pop` destructively removes the last element of its calling collection and returns that element. This means the return value of the `pop` call is the string object `caterpillar`. As the size invocation is chained to the `pop` invocation, `size` is not called on the array but on the return value of `pop` which as stated is `caterpillar`. `String#size` returns an integer object count of the number of characters in a string.

## 7. What is the block's return value in the following code? How is it determined? Also, what is the return value of any? in this code and what does it output?

```ruby
[1, 2, 3].any? do |num|
  puts num
  num.odd?
end
```

Unless there is an explict use of the return keyword, the return value of a block is always the return value of last evaluated expression. In this block, that is a an invocation of `odd?` on the value of the array element referenced by the block local variable `num`. This will return `true` if the referenced integer is an odd number and `false` if not. For this collection, it would return `true` for `1` and `3` and `false` for `2`.

However, `Array#any?` with a block returns `true` if any the block returns a truthy value on any iteration, and false if not. As the block returns `true` on the first iteration, and `true` is truthy, `any?` stops iterating after the first iteration and the return value of `any?` is `true`. As there was only one iteration, the puts call on line two will only happen once and therefore the output will be `1`.

## 8. How does take work? Is it destructive? How can we find out?

```ruby
arr = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5]
arr.take(2)
```

We can check the documentation for [`Array#take`](https://docs.ruby-lang.org/en/3.1/Array.html#method-i-take). There we can see that `take` takes one integer argument and returns a new array containing the first integer argument number of elements from the calling array. It is not destructive. We can see that from the documentation and we can run it ourselves to find out. 

Here the return value will be a new array `[1, 2]`. If we were to invoke `p` or `puts` on `arr` one more time we would see that its return value is still the same, `[1, 2, 3, 4, 5]`

## 9. What is the return value of map in the following code? Why?

```ruby
{ a: 'ant', b: 'bear' }.map do |key, value|
  if value.size > 3
    value
  end
end
```

`Enumerable#map` returns a new array of objects which are the return values of block calls on successive elements of a collection. Even when called on a hash, it will return an array. Inside the block we have an `if` conditional statement which will return the value of a key value pair, if that value has more than 3 characters. As there is no else condition, if it does not have more than `3`, it will return `nil`. On the first iteration, the value, `ant` is not greater than `3` so the return value of the block is nil. On the second iteration, `bear` is greater, so the value `bear` is the return value of the block. Therefore the return value of this map invocation will be `[nil, "bear"]`

## 10. What is the return value of the following code? Why?

```ruby
[1, 2, 3].map do |num|
  if num > 1
    puts num
  else
    num
  end
end
```

This will return `[1, nil, nil]`. `map` returns a new array of elements that are the return values of successive block calls on each element of a collection. The `if..else` statement in the block will invoke puts on the value referenced by `num` if that value being greater than `1` evaluates to `true`, and will just return the referenced value if not. On the first iteration, `1` is not greater than `1` so `1` is returned. But the on second and third iterations `num` references elements that are greater than `1` and so the `puts` invocation line is executed. However as `puts` returns `nil`, the return value of the block on those two iterations will also be `nil`. These three return values in a new array are the return value of this map invocation.
