# Practice Problems: Medium 1

[RB101.3.4](https://launchschool.com/lessons/263069da/assignments/6eba600c)

## 1. Let's do some "ASCII Art" 

Write a one-liner that outputs a string ten times with each subsequent line indented one additional space to the right

```ruby
10.times { |i| puts " " * i + "The Flintstones Rock!" }
```



## 2. Why does the code result in an error and what are two possible ways to fix this?

```ruby
puts "the value of 40 + 2 is " + (40 + 2)
```

The code will result in a TypeError because we are trying to concatenate an integer to a string which is not possible without converting the integer to a string. Two possible ways to fix this are as follows:

```ruby
# with string interpolation:

puts "the value of 40 + 2 is #{40 + 2}"

# by calling the Integer#to_s method on 42 (which is the return value of calling the Integer#+ method on 40 and passing it 2 as an argument.)

puts "the value of 40 + 2 is " + (40 + 2).to_s

```



## 3. Alan's Factors

```ruby
def factors(number)
  divisor = number
  factors = []
  while divisor > 0
    factors << number / divisor if number % divisor == 0
    divisor -= 1
  end
  factors
end

p factors(10) #== [1, 2, 5, 10]
p factors(0) #== []
p factors(-10) #== []

```

**Bonus 1**

`number % divisor == 0` calls the modulo method on the integer passed to the method as argument, passing the integer referenced by the method local variable divisor as an argument, and compares the return value to 0. If a modulo method call returns 0 that means that the caller is divisible by the argument. Therefore if this expression evaluates to true, that means the the result is an integer and has no remainder.

**Bonus 2**

As we want the method to return the factors of the given argument number, we place the factors array on the last line of the method so that it is implicitly returned. If we do not place the factors array on line 9, the return value of the method will be that of the last evaluated statement, which in this case would be the the while loop, which returns nil, and thus the method would return nil instead of the desired result.



## 4. Rolling Buffer

```ruby
def rolling_buffer1(buffer, max_buffer_size, new_element)
  buffer << new_element
  buffer.shift if buffer.size > max_buffer_size
  buffer
end

def rolling_buffer2(input_array, max_buffer_size, new_element)
  buffer = input_array + [new_element]
  buffer.shift if buffer.size > max_buffer_size
  buffer
end
```

The first method mutates the object passed in as argument and assigned to buffer parameter, because the << method is mutating. The second method re-assigns the method local variable buffer to reference a new array and so is non-mutating. 



## 5. Ben's Fibby

What's wrong?

```ruby
limit = 15

def fib(first_num, second_num)
  while first_num + second_num < limit
    sum = first_num + second_num
    first_num = second_num
    second_num = sum
  end
  sum
end

result = fib(0, 1)
puts "result is #{result}"
```

This raises a NameError exception for line 4 because the method is unable to access the outer scope local variable limit. Methods have a self contained scope and can only access objects initialized within the method or passed in as arguments. This could be fixed by making the local limit variable initialized on line 1 a constant variable instead. Or we could pass in the limit value to the method as an argument on line 12 and rewrite the method to have an additional limit parameter on line 3.

```ruby
# with constant variable instead of local

LIMIT = 15

def fib(first_num, second_num)
  while first_num + second_num < LIMIT
    sum = first_num + second_num
    first_num = second_num
    second_num = sum
  end
  sum
end

result = fib(0, 1)
puts "result is #{result}"

# or with limit passed in as argument at invocation

def fib(first_num, second_num, limit)
  while first_num + second_num < limit
    sum = first_num + second_num
    first_num = second_num
    second_num = sum
  end
  sum
end

result = fib(0, 1, 15)
puts "result is #{result}"
```



## 6. What is the output?

```ruby
answer = 42

def mess_with_it(some_number)
  some_number += 8
end

new_answer = mess_with_it(answer)

p answer - 8
```

The output of line 9, which is an invocation of the `p` method passed the return value of the object referenced by local variable `answer` - 8, is 34. This is because answer was initialized to reference 42 on line one and nothing has happened to change that reference, therefore 42-8 is 34. The method does not change the value referenced by answer because line 4 re-assigns the reference passed in as argument. Additionally, integers are immutable in Ruby so the integer referenced could not have been mutated anyway. The return value of mess_with_it method is 50 but this value is stored in a new local variable new_answer and answer is not re-assigned to reference new_answer or its referenced value.



## 7. Spot Demographic Data

```ruby
munsters = {
  "Herman" => { "age" => 32, "gender" => "male" },
  "Lily" => { "age" => 30, "gender" => "female" },
  "Grandpa" => { "age" => 402, "gender" => "male" },
  "Eddie" => { "age" => 10, "gender" => "male" },
  "Marilyn" => { "age" => 23, "gender" => "female"}
}

def mess_with_demographics(demo_hash)
  demo_hash.values.each do |family_member|
    family_member["age"] += 42
    family_member["gender"] = "other"
  end
end
```

Yes, the hash has been mutated. The values attached to the 'age' and "gender" keys have been updated (re-assigned) to new values. Although those values themselves were not mutated, this re-assignment is considered mutating to the hash collection.



## 8. rps method

What is the result of the method call?

```ruby
def rps(fist1, fist2)
  if fist1 == "rock"
    (fist2 == "paper") ? "paper" : "rock"
  elsif fist1 == "paper"
    (fist2 == "scissors") ? "scissors" : "paper"
  else
    (fist2 == "rock") ? "rock" : "scissors"
  end
end

puts rps(rps(rps("rock", "paper"), rps("rock", "scissors")), "rock")

# => paper
```



## 9. #foo #bar

What is the return value?

```ruby
def foo(param = "no")
  "yes"
end

def bar(param = "no")
  param == "no" ? "yes" : "no"
end

bar(foo)

# => "no"
```

On line 9 the bar method is invoked and passed the return value of the foo method invocation as argument. The foo method takes one argument and has a default parameter of "no". As no argument was passed to foo, this default is used, however within the method this referenced "no" is not used as the only expression is the string "yes" which is the return value of the method. This "yes" return value is passed to the bar method as an argument. bar also has a default paramter of "no" but as we pass an argument it is not used. Within the bar method there is a single ternary expression: if the object referenced by param has a value equal to "no" then "yes" will be return, else "no" will be returned. As bar was passed an argument, the default param value is not used and therefore the return value of bar is "no".